README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Angular - The modern web developer's platform</h1>

<p align="center">
  <img src="adev/src/assets/images/press-kit/angular_icon_gradient.gif" alt="angular-logo" width="120px" height="120px"/>
  <br>
  <em>Angular is a development platform for building mobile and desktop web applications
    <br> using TypeScript/JavaScript and other languages.</em>
  <br>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://angular.dev/"><strong>angular.dev</strong></a>
  <br>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="CONTRIBUTING.md">Contributing Guidelines</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/angular/angular/issues">Submit an Issue</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://blog.angular.dev/">Blog</a>
  <br>
  <br>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/@angular/core">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@angular/core.svg?logo=npm&logoColor=fff&label=NPM+package&color=limegreen" alt="Angular on npm" />
  </a>
</p>

<hr>

## Documentation

Get started with Angular, learn the fundamentals and explore advanced topics on our documentation website.

- [Getting Started][quickstart]
- [Architecture][architecture]
- [Components and Templates][componentstemplates]
- [Forms][forms]
- [API][api]

### Advanced

- [Angular Elements][angularelements]
- [Server Side Rendering][ssr]
- [Schematics][schematics]
- [Lazy Loading][lazyloading]
- [Animations][animations]

### Local Development

To contribute to the Angular Docs, check out the [Angular.dev README](adev/README.md)

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- Install [Node.js] which includes [Node Package Manager][npm]

### Setting Up a Project

Install the Angular CLI globally:

```
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

Create workspace:

```
ng new [PROJECT NAME]
```

Run the application:

```
cd [PROJECT NAME]
ng serve
```

Angular is cross-platform, fast, scalable, has incredible tooling, and is loved by millions.

## Quickstart

[Get started in 5 minutes][quickstart].

## Ecosystem

<p>
  <img src="/contributing-docs/images/angular-ecosystem-logos.png" alt="angular ecosystem logos" width="500px" height="auto">
</p>

- [Angular Command Line (CLI)][cli]
- [Angular Material][angularmaterial]

## Changelog

[Learn about the latest improvements][changelog].

## Upgrading

Check out our [upgrade guide](https://angular.dev/update-guide/) to find out the best way to upgrade your project.

## Contributing

### Contributing Guidelines

Read through our [contributing guidelines][contributing] to learn about our submission process, coding rules, and more.

### Want to Help?

Want to report a bug, contribute some code, or improve the documentation? Excellent! Read up on our guidelines for [contributing][contributing] and then check out one of our issues labeled as <kbd>[help wanted](https://github.com/angular/angular/labels/help%20wanted)</kbd> or <kbd>[good first issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/labels/good%20first%20issue)</kbd>.

### Code of Conduct

Help us keep Angular open and inclusive. Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct][codeofconduct].

## Community

Join the conversation and help the community.

- [X (formerly Twitter)][X (formerly Twitter)]
- [Bluesky][bluesky]
- [Discord][discord]
- [YouTube][youtube]
- [StackOverflow][stackoverflow]
- Find a Local [Meetup][meetup]

[![Love Angular badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/angular-love-blue?logo=angular&angular=love)](https://www.github.com/angular/angular)

**Love Angular? Give our repo a star :star: :arrow_up:.**

[contributing]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[quickstart]: https://angular.dev/tutorials/learn-angular
[changelog]: CHANGELOG.md
[ng]: https://angular.dev
[documentation]: https://angular.dev/overview
[angularmaterial]: https://material.angular.dev/
[cli]: https://angular.dev/tools/cli
[architecture]: https://angular.dev/essentials
[componentstemplates]: https://angular.dev/tutorials/learn-angular/1-components-in-angular
[forms]: https://angular.dev/tutorials/learn-angular/15-forms
[api]: https://angular.dev/api
[angularelements]: https://angular.dev/guide/elements
[ssr]: https://angular.dev/guide/ssr
[schematics]: https://angular.dev/tools/cli/schematics
[lazyloading]: https://angular.dev/guide/ngmodules/lazy-loading
[node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm
[codeofconduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[X (formerly Twitter)]: https://www.twitter.com/angular
[bluesky]: https://bsky.app/profile/angular.dev
[discord]: https://discord.gg/angular
[stackoverflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/angular
[youtube]: https://youtube.com/angular
[meetup]: https://www.meetup.com/find/?keywords=angular
[animations]: https://angular.dev/guide/animations

Commit message:

Updated Readme.md for pull req

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Angular - The modern web developer's platform</h1>

<p align="center">
  <img src="adev/src/assets/images/press-kit/angular_icon_gradient.gif" alt="angular-logo" width="120px" height="120px"/>
  <br>
  <em>Angular is a development platform for building mobile and desktop web applications
    <br> using TypeScript/JavaScript and other languages.</em>
  <br>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://angular.dev/"><strong>angular.dev</strong></a>
  <br>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="CONTRIBUTING.md">Contributing Guidelines</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/angular/angular/issues">Submit an Issue</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://blog.angular.dev/">Blog</a>
  <br>
  <br>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/@angular/core">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@angular/core.svg?logo=npm&logoColor=fff&label=NPM+package&color=limegreen" alt="Angular on npm" />
  </a>
</p>

<hr>

## Documentation
added this for fake data for pull req
Get started with Angular, learn the fundamentals and explore advanced topics on our documentation website.

- [Getting Started][quickstart]
- [Architecture][architecture]
- [Components and Templates][componentstemplates]
- [Forms][forms]
- [API][api]

### Advanced

- [Angular Elements][angularelements]
- [Server Side Rendering][ssr]
- [Schematics][schematics]
- [Lazy Loading][lazyloading]
- [Animations][animations]

### Local Development

To contribute to the Angular Docs, check out the [Angular.dev README](adev/README.md)

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- Install [Node.js] which includes [Node Package Manager][npm]

### Setting Up a Project

Install the Angular CLI globally:

```
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

Create workspace:

```
ng new [PROJECT NAME]
```

Run the application:

```
cd [PROJECT NAME]
ng serve
```

Angular is cross-platform, fast, scalable, has incredible tooling, and is loved by millions.

## Quickstart

[Get started in 5 minutes][quickstart].

## Ecosystem

<p>
  <img src="/contributing-docs/images/angular-ecosystem-logos.png" alt="angular ecosystem logos" width="500px" height="auto">
</p>

- [Angular Command Line (CLI)][cli]
- [Angular Material][angularmaterial]

## Changelog

[Learn about the latest improvements][changelog].

## Upgrading

Check out our [upgrade guide](https://angular.dev/update-guide/) to find out the best way to upgrade your project.

## Contributing

### Contributing Guidelines

Read through our [contributing guidelines][contributing] to learn about our submission process, coding rules, and more.

### Want to Help?

Want to report a bug, contribute some code, or improve the documentation? Excellent! Read up on our guidelines for [contributing][contributing] and then check out one of our issues labeled as <kbd>[help wanted](https://github.com/angular/angular/labels/help%20wanted)</kbd> or <kbd>[good first issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/labels/good%20first%20issue)</kbd>.

### Code of Conduct

Help us keep Angular open and inclusive. Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct][codeofconduct].

## Community

Join the conversation and help the community.

- [X (formerly Twitter)][X (formerly Twitter)]
- [Bluesky][bluesky]
- [Discord][discord]
- [YouTube][youtube]
- [StackOverflow][stackoverflow]
- Find a Local [Meetup][meetup]

[![Love Angular badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/angular-love-blue?logo=angular&angular=love)](https://www.github.com/angular/angular)

**Love Angular? Give our repo a star :star: :arrow_up:.**

[contributing]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[quickstart]: https://angular.dev/tutorials/learn-angular
[changelog]: CHANGELOG.md
[ng]: https://angular.dev
[documentation]: https://angular.dev/overview
[angularmaterial]: https://material.angular.dev/
[cli]: https://angular.dev/tools/cli
[architecture]: https://angular.dev/essentials
[componentstemplates]: https://angular.dev/tutorials/learn-angular/1-components-in-angular
[forms]: https://angular.dev/tutorials/learn-angular/15-forms
[api]: https://angular.dev/api
[angularelements]: https://angular.dev/guide/elements
[ssr]: https://angular.dev/guide/ssr
[schematics]: https://angular.dev/tools/cli/schematics
[lazyloading]: https://angular.dev/guide/ngmodules/lazy-loading
[node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm
[codeofconduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[X (formerly Twitter)]: https://www.twitter.com/angular
[bluesky]: https://bsky.app/profile/angular.dev
[discord]: https://discord.gg/angular
[stackoverflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/angular
[youtube]: https://youtube.com/angular
[meetup]: https://www.meetup.com/find/?keywords=angular
[animations]: https://angular.dev/guide/animations
