contributing-docs/building-and-testing-angular.md, before:

# Building and Testing Angular

This document describes how to set up your development environment to build and test Angular.
It also explains the basic mechanics of using `git`, `node`, and `pnpm`.

* [Prerequisite Software](#prerequisite-software)
* [Getting the Sources](#getting-the-sources)
* [Installing NPM Modules](#installing-npm-modules)
* [Building](#building)
* [Running Tests Locally](#running-tests-locally)
* [Formatting your Source Code](#formatting-your-source-code)
* [Linting/verifying your Source Code](#lintingverifying-your-source-code)
* [Publishing Snapshot Builds](#publishing-snapshot-builds)
* [Bazel Support](#bazel-support)

See the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
if you'd like to contribute to Angular.

## Prerequisite Software

Before you can build and test Angular, you must install and configure the
following on your development machine:

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and/or the [**GitHub app**](https://desktop.github.com/) (for Mac and
  Windows);
  [GitHub's Guide to Installing Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git) is a good source
  of information.\
  **Windows Users**: Git Bash or an equivalent shell is required\
  *Windows Powershell and cmd shells are not
  supported [#46780](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/46780) so some commands might fail*

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org), (version specified in [`.nvmrc`](../.nvmrc)) which is used to run a
  development web server,
  run tests, and generate distributable files.  
  `.nvmrc` is read by [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) commands like `nvm install`
  and `nvm use`.

* [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) (version specified in the engines field
  of [`package.json`](../package.json)) which is used to install dependencies.

* On Windows: [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/) which is used by Bazel. Follow
  the [instructions](https://bazel.build/install/windows#installing-compilers-and-language-runtimes)

## Getting the Sources

Fork and clone the Angular repository:

1. Login to your GitHub account or create one by following the instructions given
   [here](https://github.com/signup/free).
2. [Fork](https://help.github.com/forking) the [main Angular
   repository](https://github.com/angular/angular).
3. Clone your fork of the Angular repository and define an `upstream` remote pointing back to
   the Angular repository that you forked in the first place.

```shell
# Clone your GitHub repository:
git clone git@github.com:<github username>/angular.git

# Go to the Angular directory:
cd angular

# Add the main Angular repository as an upstream remote to your repository:
git remote add upstream https://github.com/angular/angular.git
```

## Installing NPM Modules

Next, install the JavaScript modules needed to build and test Angular:

```shell
# Install Angular project dependencies (package.json)
pnpm install
```

## Building

To build Angular run:

```shell
pnpm build
```

* Results are put in the `dist/packages-dist` folder.

## Running Tests Locally

Bazel is used as the primary tool for building and testing Angular.

To see how to run and debug Angular tests locally please refer to the
Bazel [Testing Angular](./building-with-bazel.md#testing-angular) section.

Note that you should execute all test suites before submitting a PR to
GitHub (`pnpm test //packages/...`).

However, affected tests will be executed on our CI infrastructure. So if you forgot to run some
affected tests which would fail, GitHub will indicate the error state and present you the failures.

PRs can only be merged if the code is formatted properly and all tests are passing.

<a name="formatting-your-source-code"></a>
<a name="clang-format"></a>
<a name="prettier"></a>

### Building and serving a project

#### Cache

When making changes to Angular packages and testing in a local library/project you need to
run `ng cache disable` to disable the Angular CLI disk cache. If you are making changes that are not
reflected in your locally served library/project, verify if you
have [CLI Cache](https://angular.dev/reference/configs/workspace-config#cache-options) disabled.

#### Invoking the Angular CLI

The Angular CLI needs to be invoked using
Node.js [`--preserve-symlinks`](https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#--preserve-symlinks) flag. Otherwise
the symbolic links will be resolved using their real path which causes node module resolution to
fail.

```sh
node --preserve-symlinks --preserve-symlinks-main node_modules/@angular/cli/lib/init.js serve
```

## Formatting your source code

Angular uses [prettier](https://prettier.io) to format the source code.
If the source code is not properly formatted, the CI will fail and the PR cannot be merged.

You can automatically format your code by running:

- `pnpm ng-dev format changed [shaOrRef]`: format only files changed since the provided
  sha/ref. `shaOrRef` defaults to `main`.
- `pnpm ng-dev format all`: format _all_ source code
- `pnpm ng-dev format files <files..>`: format only provided files

## Linting/verifying your Source Code

You can check that your code is properly formatted and adheres to coding style by running:

``` shell
$ pnpm lint
```

## Publishing Snapshot Builds

When a build of any branch on the upstream fork angular/angular is green on CI, it
automatically publishes build artifacts to repositories in the Angular org. For example,
the `@angular/core` package is published to https://github.com/angular/core-builds.

You may find that your un-merged change needs some validation from external participants.
Rather than requiring them to pull your Pull Request and build Angular locally, they can depend on
snapshots of the Angular packages created based on the code in the Pull Request.

### Publishing to GitHub Repos

You can also manually publish `*-builds` snapshots just like our CI build does for upstream
builds. Before being able to publish the packages, you need to build them locally by running the
`pnpm build` command.

First time, you need to create the GitHub repositories:

``` shell
$ export TOKEN=[get one from https://github.com/settings/tokens]
$ CREATE_REPOS=1 ./scripts/ci/publish-build-artifacts.sh [GitHub username]
```

For subsequent snapshots, just run:

``` shell
$ ./scripts/ci/publish-build-artifacts.sh [GitHub username]
```

The script will publish the build snapshot to a branch with the same name as your current branch,
and create it if it doesn't exist.

## Bazel Support

### IDEs

#### VS Code

1. Install [Bazel](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=BazelBuild.vscode-bazel)
   extension for VS Code.

#### WebStorm / IntelliJ

1. Install the [Bazel](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8609-bazel) plugin
2. You can find the settings under `Preferences->Other Settings->Bazel Settings`

It will automatically recognize `*.bazel` and `*.bzl` files.

### Remote Build Execution and Remote Caching

Bazel builds in the Angular repository use a shared cache. When a build occurs, a hash of the inputs
is computed
and checked against available outputs in the shared cache. If an output is found, it is used as the
output for the
build action rather than performing the build locally.

> Remote Build Execution requires authentication as a google.com account.

#### --config=remote flag

The `--config=remote` flag can be added to enable remote execution of builds.

Commit message:

docs: revert remove of `build-and-link`
This works again since angular/dev-infra#2922 landed

contributing-docs/building-and-testing-angular.md, after:

# Building and Testing Angular

This document describes how to set up your development environment to build and test Angular.
It also explains the basic mechanics of using `git`, `node`, and `pnpm`.

* [Prerequisite Software](#prerequisite-software)
* [Getting the Sources](#getting-the-sources)
* [Installing NPM Modules](#installing-npm-modules)
* [Building](#building)
* [Running Tests Locally](#running-tests-locally)
* [Formatting your Source Code](#formatting-your-source-code)
* [Linting/verifying your Source Code](#lintingverifying-your-source-code)
* [Publishing Snapshot Builds](#publishing-snapshot-builds)
* [Bazel Support](#bazel-support)

See the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
if you'd like to contribute to Angular.

## Prerequisite Software

Before you can build and test Angular, you must install and configure the
following on your development machine:

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and/or the [**GitHub app**](https://desktop.github.com/) (for Mac and
  Windows);
  [GitHub's Guide to Installing Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git) is a good source
  of information.\
  **Windows Users**: Git Bash or an equivalent shell is required\
  *Windows Powershell and cmd shells are not
  supported [#46780](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/46780) so some commands might fail*

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org), (version specified in [`.nvmrc`](../.nvmrc)) which is used to run a
  development web server,
  run tests, and generate distributable files.  
  `.nvmrc` is read by [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) commands like `nvm install`
  and `nvm use`.

* [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) (version specified in the engines field
  of [`package.json`](../package.json)) which is used to install dependencies.

* On Windows: [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/) which is used by Bazel. Follow
  the [instructions](https://bazel.build/install/windows#installing-compilers-and-language-runtimes)

## Getting the Sources

Fork and clone the Angular repository:

1. Login to your GitHub account or create one by following the instructions given
   [here](https://github.com/signup/free).
2. [Fork](https://help.github.com/forking) the [main Angular
   repository](https://github.com/angular/angular).
3. Clone your fork of the Angular repository and define an `upstream` remote pointing back to
   the Angular repository that you forked in the first place.

```shell
# Clone your GitHub repository:
git clone git@github.com:<github username>/angular.git

# Go to the Angular directory:
cd angular

# Add the main Angular repository as an upstream remote to your repository:
git remote add upstream https://github.com/angular/angular.git
```

## Installing NPM Modules

Next, install the JavaScript modules needed to build and test Angular:

```shell
# Install Angular project dependencies (package.json)
pnpm install
```

## Building

To build Angular run:

```shell
pnpm build
```

* Results are put in the `dist/packages-dist` folder.

## Running Tests Locally

Bazel is used as the primary tool for building and testing Angular.

To see how to run and debug Angular tests locally please refer to the
Bazel [Testing Angular](./building-with-bazel.md#testing-angular) section.

Note that you should execute all test suites before submitting a PR to
GitHub (`pnpm test //packages/...`).

However, affected tests will be executed on our CI infrastructure. So if you forgot to run some
affected tests which would fail, GitHub will indicate the error state and present you the failures.

PRs can only be merged if the code is formatted properly and all tests are passing.

<a name="formatting-your-source-code"></a>
<a name="clang-format"></a>
<a name="prettier"></a>

### Testing changes against a local library/project

Often for developers the best way to ensure the changes they have made work as expected is to run
use changes in another library or project. To do this developers can build Angular locally, and
using `pnpm link` build a local project with the created artifacts.

This can be done by running:

```sh
pnpm ng-dev misc build-and-link <path-to-local-project-root>
```

### Building and serving a project

#### Cache

When making changes to Angular packages and testing in a local library/project you need to
run `ng cache disable` to disable the Angular CLI disk cache. If you are making changes that are not
reflected in your locally served library/project, verify if you
have [CLI Cache](https://angular.dev/reference/configs/workspace-config#cache-options) disabled.

#### Invoking the Angular CLI

The Angular CLI needs to be invoked using
Node.js [`--preserve-symlinks`](https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#--preserve-symlinks) flag. Otherwise
the symbolic links will be resolved using their real path which causes node module resolution to
fail.

```sh
node --preserve-symlinks --preserve-symlinks-main node_modules/@angular/cli/lib/init.js serve
```

## Formatting your source code

Angular uses [prettier](https://prettier.io) to format the source code.
If the source code is not properly formatted, the CI will fail and the PR cannot be merged.

You can automatically format your code by running:

- `pnpm ng-dev format changed [shaOrRef]`: format only files changed since the provided
  sha/ref. `shaOrRef` defaults to `main`.
- `pnpm ng-dev format all`: format _all_ source code
- `pnpm ng-dev format files <files..>`: format only provided files

## Linting/verifying your Source Code

You can check that your code is properly formatted and adheres to coding style by running:

``` shell
$ pnpm lint
```

## Publishing Snapshot Builds

When a build of any branch on the upstream fork angular/angular is green on CI, it
automatically publishes build artifacts to repositories in the Angular org. For example,
the `@angular/core` package is published to https://github.com/angular/core-builds.

You may find that your un-merged change needs some validation from external participants.
Rather than requiring them to pull your Pull Request and build Angular locally, they can depend on
snapshots of the Angular packages created based on the code in the Pull Request.

### Publishing to GitHub Repos

You can also manually publish `*-builds` snapshots just like our CI build does for upstream
builds. Before being able to publish the packages, you need to build them locally by running the
`pnpm build` command.

First time, you need to create the GitHub repositories:

``` shell
$ export TOKEN=[get one from https://github.com/settings/tokens]
$ CREATE_REPOS=1 ./scripts/ci/publish-build-artifacts.sh [GitHub username]
```

For subsequent snapshots, just run:

``` shell
$ ./scripts/ci/publish-build-artifacts.sh [GitHub username]
```

The script will publish the build snapshot to a branch with the same name as your current branch,
and create it if it doesn't exist.

## Bazel Support

### IDEs

#### VS Code

1. Install [Bazel](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=BazelBuild.vscode-bazel)
   extension for VS Code.

#### WebStorm / IntelliJ

1. Install the [Bazel](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8609-bazel) plugin
2. You can find the settings under `Preferences->Other Settings->Bazel Settings`

It will automatically recognize `*.bazel` and `*.bzl` files.

### Remote Build Execution and Remote Caching

Bazel builds in the Angular repository use a shared cache. When a build occurs, a hash of the inputs
is computed
and checked against available outputs in the shared cache. If an output is found, it is used as the
output for the
build action rather than performing the build locally.

> Remote Build Execution requires authentication as a google.com account.

#### --config=remote flag

The `--config=remote` flag can be added to enable remote execution of builds.
