adev/src/content/guide/components/programmatic-rendering.md, before:

# Programmatically rendering components

TIP: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Angular.

In addition to using a component directly in a template, you can also dynamically render components.
There are two main ways to dynamically render a component: in a template with `NgComponentOutlet`,
or in your TypeScript code with `ViewContainerRef`.

## Using NgComponentOutlet

`NgComponentOutlet` is a structural directive that dynamically renders a given component in a
template.

```angular-ts
@Component({ ... })
export class AdminBio { /* ... */ }

@Component({ ... })
export class StandardBio { /* ... */ }

@Component({
  ...,
  template: `
    <p>Profile for {{user.name}}</p>
    <ng-container *ngComponentOutlet="getBioComponent()" /> `
})
export class CustomDialog {
  @Input() user: User;

  getBioComponent() {
    return this.user.isAdmin ? AdminBio : StandardBio;
  }
}
```

See the [NgComponentOutlet API reference](api/common/NgComponentOutlet) for more information on the
directive's capabilities.

## Using ViewContainerRef

A **view container** is a node in Angular's component tree that can contain content. Any component
or directive can inject `ViewContainerRef` to get a reference to a view container corresponding to
that component or directive's location in the DOM.

You can use the `createComponent`method on `ViewContainerRef` to dynamically create and render a
component. When you create a new component with a `ViewContainerRef`, Angular appends it into the
DOM as the next sibling of the component or directive that injected the `ViewContainerRef`.

```angular-ts
@Component({
  selector: 'leaf-content',
  template: `
    This is the leaf content
  `,
})
export class LeafContent {}

@Component({
  selector: 'outer-container',
  template: `
    <p>This is the start of the outer container</p>
    <inner-item />
    <p>This is the end of the outer container</p>
  `,
})
export class OuterContainer {}

@Component({
  selector: 'inner-item',
  template: `
    <button (click)="loadContent()">Load content</button>
  `,
})
export class InnerItem {
  private viewContainer = inject(ViewContainerRef);

  loadContent() {
    this.viewContainer.createComponent(LeafContent);
  }
}
```

In the example above, clicking the "Load content" button results in the following DOM structure

```angular-html
<outer-container>
  <p>This is the start of the outer container</p>
  <inner-item>
    <button>Load content</button>
  </inner-item>
  <leaf-content>This is the leaf content</leaf-content>
  <p>This is the end of the outer container</p>
</outer-container>
```

## Lazy-loading components

You can use both of the approaches described above, `NgComponentOutlet` and `ViewContainerRef`, to
render components that are lazy-loaded with a standard
JavaScript [dynamic import](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import).

```angular-ts
@Component({
  ...,
  template: `
    <section>
      <h2>Basic settings</h2>
      <basic-settings />
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Advanced settings</h2>
      <button (click)="loadAdvanced()" *ngIf="!advancedSettings">
        Load advanced settings
      </button>
      <ng-container *ngComponentOutlet="advancedSettings" />
    </section>
  `
})
export class AdminSettings {
  advancedSettings: {new(): AdvancedSettings} | undefined;

  async loadAdvanced() {
    const { AdvancedSettings } = await import('path/to/advanced_settings.js');
    this.advancedSettings = AdvancedSettings;
  }
}
```

The example above loads and displays the `AdvancedSettings` upon receiving a button click.

Commit message:

docs: rework programmatically rendering components section to mention @defer

adev/src/content/guide/components/programmatic-rendering.md, after:

# Programmatically rendering components

TIP: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Angular.

In addition to using a component directly in a template, you can also dynamically render components 
programmatically. This is helpful for situations when a component is unknown initially (thus can not 
be referenced in a template directly) and it depends on some conditions.

There are two main ways to render a component programmatically: in a template using `NgComponentOutlet`,
or in your TypeScript code using `ViewContainerRef`. 

HELPFUL: for lazy-loading use-cases (for example if you want to delay loading of a heavy component), consider 
using the built-in [`@defer` feature](/guide/templates/defer) instead. The `@defer` feature allows the code 
of any components, directives, and pipes inside the `@defer` block to be extracted into separate JavaScript 
chunks automatically and loaded only when necessary, based on the configured triggers.

## Using NgComponentOutlet

`NgComponentOutlet` is a structural directive that dynamically renders a given component in a
template.

```angular-ts
@Component({ ... })
export class AdminBio { /* ... */ }

@Component({ ... })
export class StandardBio { /* ... */ }

@Component({
  ...,
  template: `
    <p>Profile for {{user.name}}</p>
    <ng-container *ngComponentOutlet="getBioComponent()" /> `
})
export class CustomDialog {
  @Input() user: User;

  getBioComponent() {
    return this.user.isAdmin ? AdminBio : StandardBio;
  }
}
```

See the [NgComponentOutlet API reference](api/common/NgComponentOutlet) for more information on the
directive's capabilities.

## Using ViewContainerRef

A **view container** is a node in Angular's component tree that can contain content. Any component
or directive can inject `ViewContainerRef` to get a reference to a view container corresponding to
that component or directive's location in the DOM.

You can use the `createComponent`method on `ViewContainerRef` to dynamically create and render a
component. When you create a new component with a `ViewContainerRef`, Angular appends it into the
DOM as the next sibling of the component or directive that injected the `ViewContainerRef`.

```angular-ts
@Component({
  selector: 'leaf-content',
  template: `
    This is the leaf content
  `,
})
export class LeafContent {}

@Component({
  selector: 'outer-container',
  template: `
    <p>This is the start of the outer container</p>
    <inner-item />
    <p>This is the end of the outer container</p>
  `,
})
export class OuterContainer {}

@Component({
  selector: 'inner-item',
  template: `
    <button (click)="loadContent()">Load content</button>
  `,
})
export class InnerItem {
  private viewContainer = inject(ViewContainerRef);

  loadContent() {
    this.viewContainer.createComponent(LeafContent);
  }
}
```

In the example above, clicking the "Load content" button results in the following DOM structure

```angular-html
<outer-container>
  <p>This is the start of the outer container</p>
  <inner-item>
    <button>Load content</button>
  </inner-item>
  <leaf-content>This is the leaf content</leaf-content>
  <p>This is the end of the outer container</p>
</outer-container>
```

## Lazy-loading components

HELPFUL: if you want to lazy-load some components, you may consider using the built-in [`@defer` feature](/guide/templates/defer) 
instead.

If your use-case is not covered by the `@defer` feature, you can use either `NgComponentOutlet` or 
`ViewContainerRef` with a standard JavaScript [dynamic import](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import).

```angular-ts
@Component({
  ...,
  template: `
    <section>
      <h2>Basic settings</h2>
      <basic-settings />
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Advanced settings</h2>
      <button (click)="loadAdvanced()" *ngIf="!advancedSettings">
        Load advanced settings
      </button>
      <ng-container *ngComponentOutlet="advancedSettings" />
    </section>
  `
})
export class AdminSettings {
  advancedSettings: {new(): AdvancedSettings} | undefined;

  async loadAdvanced() {
    const { AdvancedSettings } = await import('path/to/advanced_settings.js');
    this.advancedSettings = AdvancedSettings;
  }
}
```

The example above loads and displays the `AdvancedSettings` upon receiving a button click.
