# [Angular.dev](https://www.angular.dev)

This site is built with Angular.

The content is written primarily in Markdown format located in `src/content`. For simple edits, you can directly edit the file on GitHub and generate a Pull Request.

## Local Development

For local development, [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) is the preferred package manager. You can set up a local environment with the following commands
:

```bash
# Clone Angular repo
git clone https://github.com/angular/angular.git

# Navigate to project directory
cd angular

# Install dependencies
pnpm

# Build and run local dev server
# NOTE: Initial build will take some time
pnpm adev
```

If you are having issues with the docs building, see the [FAQs](#faqs) section.

## Contributing

Want to report a bug, contribute some code, or improve the documentation? Excellent!

Read through our [contributing guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our submission process, coding rules, and more.

And if you're new, check out one of our issues labeled as <kbd>[help wanted](https://github.com/angular/angular/labels/help%20wanted)</kbd> or <kbd>[good first issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/labels/good%20first%20issue)</kbd>.

### Code of Conduct

Help us keep Angular open and inclusive. Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## FAQs

### The build is failing and I'm seeing `bazel:bazel failed: missing input file` messages.

This is most likely due to a bazel dependency / caching issue. To resolve this, run the following command:

```
# Try this first
pnpm bazel clean

# If that doesn't work, try it with the expunge flag
pnpm bazel clean --expunge
```


## High level architecture 

The angular.dev website is a modern Angular application that utilizes Static Site Generation (SSG) to deliver pre-rendered, high-performance content to users.

The architecture is designed for efficiency and maintainability:

Content Sources: The documentation is sourced from two main places within the monorepo. The guides and tutorials are written in Markdown files, while the API reference pages are automatically generated by extracting documentation directly from the TypeScript source code of the Angular framework packages.

Build Process: During the build process, the Markdown files are converted into HTML. Simultaneously, the API documentation is extracted from the code comments. This content is then integrated into the Angular application. 