The `a11y` package provides a number of tools to improve accessibility, described below.

### ListKeyManager

`ListKeyManager` manages the active option in a list of items based on keyboard interaction.
Intended to be used with components that correspond to a `role="menu"` or `role="listbox"` pattern.

#### Basic usage

Any component that uses a `ListKeyManager` will generally do three things:
* Create a `@ViewChildren` query for the options being managed.
* Initialize the `ListKeyManager`, passing in the options.
* Forward keyboard events from the managed component to the `ListKeyManager`.

Each option should implement the `ListKeyManagerOption` interface:
```ts
interface ListKeyManagerOption {
  disabled?: boolean;
  getLabel?(): string;
}
```

#### Wrapping

Navigation through options can be made to wrap via the `withWrap` method
```ts
this.keyManager = new FocusKeyManager(...).withWrap();
```

#### Types of key managers

There are two varieties of `ListKeyManager`, `FocusKeyManager` and `ActiveDescendantKeyManager`.

##### FocusKeyManager

Used when options will directly receive browser focus. Each item managed must implement the
`FocusableOption` interface:
```ts
interface FocusableOption extends ListKeyManagerOption {
  focus(): void;
}
```

##### ActiveDescendantKeyManager

Used when options will be marked as active via `aria-activedescendant`.
Each item managed must implement the
`Highlightable` interface:
```ts
interface Highlightable extends ListKeyManagerOption {
  setActiveStyles(): void;
  setInactiveStyles(): void;
}
```

Each item must also have an ID bound to the listbox's or menu's `aria-activedescendant`.


### FocusTrap

The `cdkTrapFocus` directive traps <kbd>Tab</kbd> key focus within an element. This is intended to
be used to create accessible experience for components like
[modal dialogs](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#dialog_modal), where focus must be
constrained.

This directive is declared in `A11yModule`.

#### Example

```html
<div class="my-inner-dialog-content" cdkTrapFocus>
  <!-- Tab and Shift + Tab will not leave this element. -->
</div>
```

This directive will not prevent focus from moving out of the trapped region due to mouse
interaction.

#### Regions

Regions can be declared explicitly with an initial focus element by using
the `cdkFocusRegionStart`, `cdkFocusRegionEnd` and `cdkFocusInitial` DOM attributes.
`cdkFocusInitial` specifies the element that will receive focus upon initialization of the region.
`cdkFocusRegionStart` and `cdkFocusRegionEnd` define the region within which focus will be
trapped. When using the tab key, focus will move through this region and wrap around on either end.

For example:

```html
<a mat-list-item routerLink cdkFocusRegionStart>Focus region start</a>
<a mat-list-item routerLink>Link</a>
<a mat-list-item routerLink cdkFocusInitial>Initially focused</a>
<a mat-list-item routerLink cdkFocusRegionEnd>Focus region end</a>
```

**Note:** If you're using `cdkFocusInitial` together with the `CdkTrapFocus` directive, nothing
will happen unless you've enabled the `cdkTrapFocusAutoCapture` option as well. This is due to
`CdkTrapFocus` not capturing focus on initialization by default.

### InteractivityChecker

`InteractivityChecker` is used to check the interactivity of an element, capturing disabled,
visible, tabbable, and focusable states for accessibility purposes. See the API docs for more
details.


### LiveAnnouncer

`LiveAnnouncer` is used to announce messages for screen-reader users using an `aria-live` region.
See [the W3C's WAI-ARIA](https://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/aria-1.1/states_and_properties#aria-live)
for more information on aria-live regions.

#### Example

```ts
@Component({...})
export class MyComponent {

 constructor(liveAnnouncer: LiveAnnouncer) {
   liveAnnouncer.announce("Hey Google");
 }
}
```

### FocusMonitor

The `FocusMonitor` is an injectable service that can be used to listen for changes in the focus
state of an element. It's more powerful than just listening for `focus` or `blur` events because it
tells you how the element was focused (via the mouse, keyboard, touch, or programmatically). It also
allows listening for focus on descendant elements if desired.

To listen for focus changes on an element, use the `monitor` method which takes an element to
monitor and an optional boolean flag `checkChildren`. Passing true for `checkChildren` will tell the
`FocusMonitor` to consider the element focused if any of its descendants are focused. This option
defaults to `false` if not specified. The `monitor` method will return an Observable that emits the
`FocusOrigin` whenever the focus state changes. The `FocusOrigin` will be one of the following:

* `'mouse'` indicates the element was focused with the mouse
* `'keyboard'` indicates the element was focused with the keyboard
* `'touch'` indicates the element was focused by touching on a touchscreen
* `'program'` indicates the element was focused programmatically
* `null` indicates the element was blurred

In addition to emitting on the observable, the `FocusMonitor` will automatically apply CSS classes
to the element when focused. It will add `.cdk-focused` if the element is focused and will further
add `.cdk-${origin}-focused` (with `${origin}` being `mouse`, `keyboard`, `touch`, or `program`) to
indicate how the element was focused.

Note: currently the `FocusMonitor` emits on the observable _outside_ of the Angular zone. Therefore,
if you `markForCheck` in the subscription you must put yourself back in the Angular zone.

```ts
focusMonitor.monitor(el).subscribe(origin => this.ngZone.run(() => /* ... */ ));
```

Any element that is monitored by calling `monitor` should eventually be unmonitored by calling
`stopMonitoring` with the same element.

<!-- example(focus-monitor-overview) -->

It is possible to falsify the `FocusOrigin` when setting the focus programmatically by using the
`focusVia` method of `FocusMonitor`. This method accepts an element to focus and the `FocusOrigin`
to use. If the element being focused is currently being monitored by the `FocusMonitor` it will
report the `FocusOrigin` that was passed in. If the element is not currently being monitored, it
will just be focused like normal.

<!-- example(focus-monitor-focus-via) -->

#### cdkMonitorElementFocus and cdkMonitorSubtreeFocus

For convenience, the CDK also provides two directives that allow for easily monitoring an element.
`cdkMonitorElementFocus` is the equivalent of calling `monitor` on the host element with
`checkChildren` set to `false`. `cdkMonitorSubtreeFocus` is the equivalent of calling `monitor` on
the host element with `checkChildren` set to `true`. Each of these directives has an `@Output()`
`cdkFocusChange` that will emit the new `FocusOrigin` whenever it changes.

<!-- example(focus-monitor-directives) -->

### Styling utilities

The `cdk/a11y` package comes with Sass mixins that produce styles useful for building
accessible experiences.

#### Hiding elements in an accessible way

Screen readers and other assistive technology skip elements that have `display: none`,
`visibility: hidden`, `opacity: 0`, `height: 0`, or `width: 0`. In some cases you may need to
visually hide an element while keeping it available to assistive technology. You can do so using
the `a11y-visually-hidden` Sass mixin, which emits the `.cdk-visually-hidden` CSS class.

If you're using Angular Material, this class is included automatically by Angular Material's theming
system. Otherwise, you can include this mixin in a global stylesheet.

```scss
@use '@angular/cdk';

@include cdk.a11y-visually-hidden();
```

```html
<div class="custom-checkbox">
  <input type="checkbox" class="cdk-visually-hidden">
</div>
```

#### Targeting high contrast users

Microsoft Windows includes an accessibility feature called [Windows High Contrast Mode][]. The
`cdk/a11y` package provides a Sass mixin that lets you define styles that only apply in high
contrast mode. To create a high contrast style, define your style inside the `high-contrast` mixin.

The mixin works by targeting a CSS class which is added to the `body` by the CDK when high contrast
mode is detected at runtime, via the `HighContrastModeDetector` service.

```scss
@use '@angular/cdk';

button {
  @include cdk.high-contrast() {
    outline: solid 1px;
  }
}
```

The `high-contrast` mixin accepts two optional parameters, `$target` and `$encapsulation`.

The `$target` parameter allows you to specify which variation of high contrast mode your style
targets. The accepted values are `active` (default), `black-on-white`, and `white-on-black`. These
values correspond to the supported values for the
[`-ms-high-contrast` media query][ms-high-contrast].

The `$encapsulation` parameter affects how the emitted styles interact with style encapsulation.
The supported values are `on`, `off`, and `any`. The default value is `any`, which works for any
encapsulation scenario by emitting two selectors. Specifying either `on` or `off` slightly reduces
the amount of CSS emitted by limiting the styles to components with encapsulation enabled or
disabled, respectively. The styles emitted for encapsulated components work for both Angular's
emulated style encapsulation and for native Shadow DOM encapsulation.

[Windows High Contrast Mode]: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/use-high-contrast-mode-in-windows-10-fedc744c-90ac-69df-aed5-c8a90125e696
[ms-high-contrast]: https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2020/09/17/styling-for-windows-high-contrast-with-new-standards-for-forced-colors/
