adev/src/content/guide/directives/overview.md, before:

<docs-decorative-header title="Built-in directives" imgSrc="adev/src/assets/images/directives.svg"> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line -->
Directives are classes that add additional behavior to elements in your Angular applications.
</docs-decorative-header>

Use Angular's built-in directives to manage forms, lists, styles, and what users see.

The different types of Angular directives are as follows:

| Directive Types                                          | Details                                                                           |
| :------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Components](guide/components)                           | Used with a template. This type of directive is the most common directive type.   |
| [Attribute directives](#built-in-attribute-directives)   | Change the appearance or behavior of an element, component, or another directive. |

This guide covers built-in [attribute directives](#built-in-attribute-directives).

## Built-in attribute directives

Attribute directives listen to and modify the behavior of other HTML elements, attributes, properties, and components.

The most common attribute directives are as follows:

| Common directives                                             | Details                                            |
| :------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------- |
| [`NgClass`](#adding-and-removing-classes-with-ngclass)        | Adds and removes a set of CSS classes.             |
| [`NgStyle`](#setting-inline-styles-with-ngstyle)              | Adds and removes a set of HTML styles.             |
| [`NgModel`](guide/forms/template-driven-forms)                | Adds two-way data binding to an HTML form element. |

HELPFUL: Built-in directives use only public APIs. They do not have special access to any private APIs that other directives can't access.

## Adding and removing classes with `NgClass`

Add or remove multiple CSS classes simultaneously with `ngClass`.

HELPFUL: To add or remove a _single_ class, use [class binding](guide/templates/class-binding) rather than `NgClass`.

### Import `NgClass` in the component

To use `NgClass`, add it to the component's `imports` list.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts (NgClass import)" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="import-ng-class"/>

### Using `NgClass` with an expression

On the element you'd like to style, add `[ngClass]` and set it equal to an expression.
In this case, `isSpecial` is a boolean set to `true` in `app.component.ts`.
Because `isSpecial` is true, `ngClass` applies the class of `special` to the `<div>`.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="special-div"/>

### Using `NgClass` with a method

1. To use `NgClass` with a method, add the method to the component class.
   In the following example, `setCurrentClasses()` sets the property `currentClasses` with an object that adds or removes three classes based on the `true` or `false` state of three other component properties.

   Each key of the object is a CSS class name.
   If a key is `true`, `ngClass` adds the class.
   If a key is `false`, `ngClass` removes the class.

   <docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="setClasses"/>

1. In the template, add the `ngClass` property binding to `currentClasses` to set the element's classes:

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="NgClass-1"/>

For this use case, Angular applies the classes on initialization and in case of changes caused by reassigning the `currentClasses` object.
The full example calls `setCurrentClasses()` initially with `ngOnInit()` when the user clicks on the `Refresh currentClasses` button.
These steps are not necessary to implement `ngClass`.

## Setting inline styles with `NgStyle`

HELPFUL: To add or remove a _single_ style, use [style bindings](guide/templates/binding#css-class-and-style-property-bindings) rather than `NgStyle`.

### Import `NgStyle` in the component

To use `NgStyle`, add it to the component's `imports` list.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts (NgStyle import)" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="import-ng-style"/>

Use `NgStyle` to set multiple inline styles simultaneously, based on the state of the component.

1. To use `NgStyle`, add a method to the component class.

   In the following example, `setCurrentStyles()` sets the property `currentStyles` with an object that defines three styles, based on the state of three other component properties.

   <docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="setStyles"/>

1. To set the element's styles, add an `ngStyle` property binding to `currentStyles`.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="NgStyle-2"/>

For this use case, Angular applies the styles upon initialization and in case of changes.
To do this, the full example calls `setCurrentStyles()` initially with `ngOnInit()` and when the dependent properties change through a button click.
However, these steps are not necessary to implement `ngStyle` on its own.

## Hosting a directive without a DOM element

The Angular `<ng-container>` is a grouping element that doesn't interfere with styles or layout because Angular doesn't put it in the DOM.

Use `<ng-container>` when there's no single element to host the directive.

Here's a conditional paragraph using `<ng-container>`.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html (ngif-ngcontainer)" path="adev/src/content/examples/structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="ngif-ngcontainer"/>

<img alt="ngcontainer paragraph with proper style" src="assets/images/guide/structural-directives/good-paragraph.png">

1. Import the `ngModel` directive from `FormsModule`.

1. Add `FormsModule` to the imports section of the relevant Angular module.

1. To conditionally exclude an `<option>`, wrap the `<option>` in an `<ng-container>`.

   <docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html (select-ngcontainer)" path="adev/src/content/examples/structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="select-ngcontainer"/>

   <img alt="ngcontainer options work properly" src="assets/images/guide/structural-directives/select-ngcontainer-anim.gif">

## What's next

<docs-pill-row>
  <docs-pill href="guide/directives/attribute-directives" title="Attribute Directives"/>
  <docs-pill href="guide/directives/structural-directives" title="Structural Directives"/>
  <docs-pill href="guide/directives/directive-composition-api" title="Directive composition API"/>
</docs-pill-row>

Commit message:

docs: restore mention of structural directives.
The link was removed in #61708, but we should actually kept it but point to the dedicated page

fixes #62835

adev/src/content/guide/directives/overview.md, after:

<docs-decorative-header title="Built-in directives" imgSrc="adev/src/assets/images/directives.svg"> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line -->
Directives are classes that add additional behavior to elements in your Angular applications.
</docs-decorative-header>

Use Angular's built-in directives to manage forms, lists, styles, and what users see.

The different types of Angular directives are as follows:

| Directive Types                                                  | Details                                                                           |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Components](guide/components)                                   | Used with a template. This type of directive is the most common directive type.   |
| [Attribute directives](#built-in-attribute-directives)           | Change the appearance or behavior of an element, component, or another directive. |
| [Structural directives](/guide/directives/structural-directives) | Change the DOM layout by adding and removing DOM elements.                        |

This guide covers built-in [attribute directives](#built-in-attribute-directives).

## Built-in attribute directives

Attribute directives listen to and modify the behavior of other HTML elements, attributes, properties, and components.

The most common attribute directives are as follows:

| Common directives                                      | Details                                            |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------- |
| [`NgClass`](#adding-and-removing-classes-with-ngclass) | Adds and removes a set of CSS classes.             |
| [`NgStyle`](#setting-inline-styles-with-ngstyle)       | Adds and removes a set of HTML styles.             |
| [`NgModel`](guide/forms/template-driven-forms)         | Adds two-way data binding to an HTML form element. |

HELPFUL: Built-in directives use only public APIs. They do not have special access to any private APIs that other directives can't access.

## Adding and removing classes with `NgClass`

Add or remove multiple CSS classes simultaneously with `ngClass`.

HELPFUL: To add or remove a _single_ class, use [class binding](guide/templates/class-binding) rather than `NgClass`.

### Import `NgClass` in the component

To use `NgClass`, add it to the component's `imports` list.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts (NgClass import)" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="import-ng-class"/>

### Using `NgClass` with an expression

On the element you'd like to style, add `[ngClass]` and set it equal to an expression.
In this case, `isSpecial` is a boolean set to `true` in `app.component.ts`.
Because `isSpecial` is true, `ngClass` applies the class of `special` to the `<div>`.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="special-div"/>

### Using `NgClass` with a method

1. To use `NgClass` with a method, add the method to the component class.
   In the following example, `setCurrentClasses()` sets the property `currentClasses` with an object that adds or removes three classes based on the `true` or `false` state of three other component properties.

   Each key of the object is a CSS class name.
   If a key is `true`, `ngClass` adds the class.
   If a key is `false`, `ngClass` removes the class.

   <docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="setClasses"/>

1. In the template, add the `ngClass` property binding to `currentClasses` to set the element's classes:

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="NgClass-1"/>

For this use case, Angular applies the classes on initialization and in case of changes caused by reassigning the `currentClasses` object.
The full example calls `setCurrentClasses()` initially with `ngOnInit()` when the user clicks on the `Refresh currentClasses` button.
These steps are not necessary to implement `ngClass`.

## Setting inline styles with `NgStyle`

HELPFUL: To add or remove a _single_ style, use [style bindings](guide/templates/binding#css-class-and-style-property-bindings) rather than `NgStyle`.

### Import `NgStyle` in the component

To use `NgStyle`, add it to the component's `imports` list.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts (NgStyle import)" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="import-ng-style"/>

Use `NgStyle` to set multiple inline styles simultaneously, based on the state of the component.

1. To use `NgStyle`, add a method to the component class.

   In the following example, `setCurrentStyles()` sets the property `currentStyles` with an object that defines three styles, based on the state of three other component properties.

   <docs-code header="src/app/app.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" visibleRegion="setStyles"/>

1. To set the element's styles, add an `ngStyle` property binding to `currentStyles`.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="NgStyle-2"/>

For this use case, Angular applies the styles upon initialization and in case of changes.
To do this, the full example calls `setCurrentStyles()` initially with `ngOnInit()` and when the dependent properties change through a button click.
However, these steps are not necessary to implement `ngStyle` on its own.

## Hosting a directive without a DOM element

The Angular `<ng-container>` is a grouping element that doesn't interfere with styles or layout because Angular doesn't put it in the DOM.

Use `<ng-container>` when there's no single element to host the directive.

Here's a conditional paragraph using `<ng-container>`.

<docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html (ngif-ngcontainer)" path="adev/src/content/examples/structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="ngif-ngcontainer"/>

<img alt="ngcontainer paragraph with proper style" src="assets/images/guide/structural-directives/good-paragraph.png">

1. Import the `ngModel` directive from `FormsModule`.

1. Add `FormsModule` to the imports section of the relevant Angular module.

1. To conditionally exclude an `<option>`, wrap the `<option>` in an `<ng-container>`.

   <docs-code header="src/app/app.component.html (select-ngcontainer)" path="adev/src/content/examples/structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" visibleRegion="select-ngcontainer"/>

   <img alt="ngcontainer options work properly" src="assets/images/guide/structural-directives/select-ngcontainer-anim.gif">

## What's next

<docs-pill-row>
  <docs-pill href="guide/directives/attribute-directives" title="Attribute Directives"/>
  <docs-pill href="guide/directives/structural-directives" title="Structural Directives"/>
  <docs-pill href="guide/directives/directive-composition-api" title="Directive composition API"/>
</docs-pill-row>
