adev/src/content/guide/elements.md, before:

# Angular elements overview

_Angular elements_ are Angular components packaged as _custom elements_ \(also called Web Components\), a web standard for defining new HTML elements in a framework-agnostic way.

[Custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements) are a Web Platform feature available on all browsers supported by Angular.
A custom element extends HTML by allowing you to define a tag whose content is created and controlled by JavaScript code.
The browser maintains a `CustomElementRegistry` of defined custom elements, which maps an instantiable JavaScript class to an HTML tag.

The `@angular/elements` package exports a `createCustomElement()` API that provides a bridge from Angular's component interface and change detection functionality to the built-in DOM API.

Transforming a component to a custom element makes all the required Angular infrastructure available to the browser.
Creating a custom element is simple and straightforward, and automatically connects your component-defined view with change detection and data binding, mapping Angular functionality to the corresponding built-in HTML equivalents.

## Using custom elements

Custom elements bootstrap themselves - they start when they are added to the DOM, and are destroyed when removed from the DOM.
Once a custom element is added to the DOM for any page, it looks and behaves like any other HTML element, and does not require any special knowledge of Angular terms or usage conventions.

To add the `@angular/elements` package to your workspace, run the following command:

<docs-code language="shell">

npm install @angular/elements --save

</docs-code>

### How it works

The `createCustomElement()` function converts a component into a class that can be registered with the browser as a custom element.
After you register your configured class with the browser's custom-element registry, use the new element just like a built-in HTML element in content that you add directly into the DOM:

<docs-code language="html">

<my-popup message="Use Angular!"></my-popup>

</docs-code>

When your custom element is placed on a page, the browser creates an instance of the registered class and adds it to the DOM.
The content is provided by the component's template, which uses Angular template syntax, and is rendered using the component and DOM data.
Input properties in the component correspond to input attributes for the element.

## Transforming components to custom elements

Angular provides the `createCustomElement()` function for converting an Angular component, together with its dependencies, to a custom element.

The conversion process implements the `NgElementConstructor` interface, and creates a
constructor class that is configured to produce a self-bootstrapping instance of your component.

Use the browser's native [`customElements.define()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CustomElementRegistry/define) function to register the configured constructor and its associated custom-element tag with the browser's [`CustomElementRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CustomElementRegistry).
When the browser encounters the tag for the registered element, it uses the constructor to create a custom-element instance.

IMPORTANT: Avoid using the component's selector as the custom element tag name.
This can lead to unexpected behavior, due to Angular creating two component instances for a single DOM element:
One regular Angular component and a second one using the custom element.

### Mapping

A custom element _hosts_ an Angular component, providing a bridge between the data and logic defined in the component and standard DOM APIs.
Component properties and logic maps directly into HTML attributes and the browser's event system.

* The creation API parses the component looking for input properties, and defines corresponding attributes for the custom element.
  It transforms the property names to make them compatible with custom elements, which do not recognize case distinctions.
  The resulting attribute names use dash-separated lowercase.
  For example, for a component with `inputProp = input({alias: 'myInputProp'})`, the corresponding custom element defines an attribute `my-input-prop`.

* Component outputs are dispatched as HTML [Custom Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CustomEvent), with the name of the custom event matching the output name.
    For example, for a component `with valueChanged = output()`, the corresponding custom element dispatches events with the name "valueChanged", and the emitted data is stored on the event's `detail` property.
    If you provide an alias, that value is used; for example, `clicks = output<string>({alias: 'myClick'});` results in dispatch events with the name "myClick".

For more information, see Web Component documentation for [Creating custom events](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Guide/Events/Creating_and_triggering_events#Creating_custom_events).

## Example: A Popup Service

Previously, when you wanted to add a component to an application at runtime, you had to define a _dynamic component_, and then you would have to load it, attach it to an element in the DOM, and wire up all of the dependencies, change detection, and event handling.

Using an Angular custom element makes the process simpler and more transparent, by providing all the infrastructure and framework automatically —all you have to do is define the kind of event handling you want.
\(You do still have to exclude the component from compilation, if you are not going to use it in your application.\)

The following Popup Service example application defines a component that you can either load dynamically or convert to a custom element.

| Files                | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| :------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `popup.component.ts` | Defines a simple pop-up element that displays an input message, with some animation and styling.                                                                                                                             |
| `popup.service.ts`   | Creates an injectable service that provides two different ways to invoke the `PopupComponent`; as a dynamic component, or as a custom element. Notice how much more setup is required for the dynamic-loading method.        |  |
| `app.component.ts`   | Defines the application's root component, which uses the `PopupService` to add the pop-up to the DOM at run time. When the application runs, the root component's constructor converts `PopupComponent` to a custom element. |

For comparison, the demo shows both methods.
One button adds the popup using the dynamic-loading method, and the other uses the custom element.
The result is the same, but the preparation is different.

<docs-code-multifile>
    <docs-code header="popup.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/elements/src/app/popup.component.ts"/>
    <docs-code header="popup.service.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/elements/src/app/popup.service.ts"/>
    <docs-code header="app.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/elements/src/app/app.component.ts"/>
</docs-code-multifile>

## Typings for custom elements

Generic DOM APIs, such as `document.createElement()` or `document.querySelector()`, return an element type that is appropriate for the specified arguments.
For example, calling `document.createElement('a')` returns an `HTMLAnchorElement`, which TypeScript knows has an `href` property.
Similarly, `document.createElement('div')` returns an `HTMLDivElement`, which TypeScript knows has no `href` property.

When called with unknown elements, such as a custom element name \(`popup-element` in our example\), the methods return a generic type, such as `HTMLElement`, because TypeScript can't infer the correct type of the returned element.

Custom elements created with Angular extend `NgElement` \(which in turn extends `HTMLElement`\).
Additionally, these custom elements will have a property for each input of the corresponding component.
For example, our `popup-element` has a `message` property of type `string`.

There are a few options if you want to get correct types for your custom elements.
Assume you create a `my-dialog` custom element based on the following component:

<docs-code language="typescript">

@Component(…)
class MyDialog {
  content =  input(string);
}

</docs-code>

The most straightforward way to get accurate typings is to cast the return value of the relevant DOM methods to the correct type.
For that, use the `NgElement` and `WithProperties` types \(both exported from `@angular/elements`\):

<docs-code language="typescript">

const aDialog = document.createElement('my-dialog') as NgElement & WithProperties<{content: string}>;
aDialog.content = 'Hello, world!';
aDialog.content = 123;  // <-- ERROR: TypeScript knows this should be a string.
aDialog.body = 'News';  // <-- ERROR: TypeScript knows there is no `body` property on `aDialog`.

</docs-code>

This is a good way to quickly get TypeScript features, such as type checking and autocomplete support, for your custom element.
But it can get cumbersome if you need it in several places, because you have to cast the return type on every occurrence.

An alternative way, that only requires defining each custom element's type once, is augmenting the `HTMLElementTagNameMap`, which TypeScript uses to infer the type of a returned element based on its tag name \(for DOM methods such as `document.createElement()`, `document.querySelector()`, etc.\):

<docs-code language="typescript">

declare global {
  interface HTMLElementTagNameMap {
    'my-dialog': NgElement & WithProperties<{content: string}>;
    'my-other-element': NgElement & WithProperties<{foo: 'bar'}>;
    …
  }
}

</docs-code>

Now, TypeScript can infer the correct type the same way it does for built-in elements:

<docs-code language="typescript">

document.createElement('div')               //--> HTMLDivElement (built-in element)
document.querySelector('foo')               //--> Element        (unknown element)
document.createElement('my-dialog')         //--> NgElement & WithProperties<{content: string}> (custom element)
document.querySelector('my-other-element')  //--> NgElement & WithProperties<{foo: 'bar'}>      (custom element)

</docs-code>

## Limitations

Care should be taken when destroying and then re-attaching custom elements created with `@angular/elements` due to issues with the [disconnect()](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/38778) callback. Cases where you may run into this issue are:

- Rendering a component in an `ng-if` or `ng-repeat` in `AngularJs`
- Manually detaching and re-attaching an element to the DOM

Commit message:

feat(elements): add option to expose public methods in `NgElement` (#63090)
The `exposedMethods` option allows specific public methods from the
underlying Angular component to be accessible directly on the custom
element instance.

When `exposedMethods` is provided, each listed method is proxied to
the component instance once it is initialized, enabling imperative
interaction from non-Angular code.

PR Close #63090

adev/src/content/guide/elements.md, after:

# Angular elements overview

_Angular elements_ are Angular components packaged as _custom elements_ \(also called Web Components\), a web standard for defining new HTML elements in a framework-agnostic way.

[Custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements) are a Web Platform feature available on all browsers supported by Angular.
A custom element extends HTML by allowing you to define a tag whose content is created and controlled by JavaScript code.
The browser maintains a `CustomElementRegistry` of defined custom elements, which maps an instantiable JavaScript class to an HTML tag.

The `@angular/elements` package exports a `createCustomElement()` API that provides a bridge from Angular's component interface and change detection functionality to the built-in DOM API.

Transforming a component to a custom element makes all the required Angular infrastructure available to the browser.
Creating a custom element is simple and straightforward, and automatically connects your component-defined view with change detection and data binding, mapping Angular functionality to the corresponding built-in HTML equivalents.

## Using custom elements

Custom elements bootstrap themselves - they start when they are added to the DOM, and are destroyed when removed from the DOM.
Once a custom element is added to the DOM for any page, it looks and behaves like any other HTML element, and does not require any special knowledge of Angular terms or usage conventions.

To add the `@angular/elements` package to your workspace, run the following command:

<docs-code language="shell">

npm install @angular/elements --save

</docs-code>

### How it works

The `createCustomElement()` function converts a component into a class that can be registered with the browser as a custom element.
After you register your configured class with the browser's custom-element registry, use the new element just like a built-in HTML element in content that you add directly into the DOM:

<docs-code language="html">

<my-popup message="Use Angular!"></my-popup>

</docs-code>

When your custom element is placed on a page, the browser creates an instance of the registered class and adds it to the DOM.
The content is provided by the component's template, which uses Angular template syntax, and is rendered using the component and DOM data.
Input properties in the component correspond to input attributes for the element.

## Transforming components to custom elements

Angular provides the `createCustomElement()` function for converting an Angular component, together with its dependencies, to a custom element.

The conversion process implements the `NgElementConstructor` interface, and creates a
constructor class that is configured to produce a self-bootstrapping instance of your component.

Use the browser's native [`customElements.define()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CustomElementRegistry/define) function to register the configured constructor and its associated custom-element tag with the browser's [`CustomElementRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CustomElementRegistry).
When the browser encounters the tag for the registered element, it uses the constructor to create a custom-element instance.

IMPORTANT: Avoid using the component's selector as the custom element tag name.
This can lead to unexpected behavior, due to Angular creating two component instances for a single DOM element:
One regular Angular component and a second one using the custom element.

### Mapping

A custom element _hosts_ an Angular component, providing a bridge between the data and logic defined in the component and standard DOM APIs.
Component properties and logic maps directly into HTML attributes and the browser's event system.

* The creation API parses the component looking for input properties, and defines corresponding attributes for the custom element.
  It transforms the property names to make them compatible with custom elements, which do not recognize case distinctions.
  The resulting attribute names use dash-separated lowercase.
  For example, for a component with `inputProp = input({alias: 'myInputProp'})`, the corresponding custom element defines an attribute `my-input-prop`.

* Component outputs are dispatched as HTML [Custom Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CustomEvent), with the name of the custom event matching the output name.
    For example, for a component `with valueChanged = output()`, the corresponding custom element dispatches events with the name "valueChanged", and the emitted data is stored on the event's `detail` property.
    If you provide an alias, that value is used; for example, `clicks = output<string>({alias: 'myClick'});` results in dispatch events with the name "myClick".

For more information, see Web Component documentation for [Creating custom events](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Guide/Events/Creating_and_triggering_events#Creating_custom_events).

## Exposing component methods

In addition to mapping component inputs and outputs to HTML attributes and DOM events, you can also expose specific component methods to be callable directly on the custom element instance via the `exposedMethods` option of `createCustomElement()`.

When you provide an array of method names in `exposedMethods`, each method will be proxied to the underlying Angular component instance once it is initialized. This allows host applications (including non-Angular ones) to interact with your component’s imperative API.

```typescript
const MyElement = createCustomElement(MyComponent, {
  injector,
  exposedMethods: ['open', 'close', 'toggle']
});

customElements.define('my-element', MyElement);
```

Now, when you add `<my-element>` to the DOM, you can call these methods directly:

const el = document.querySelector('my-element');
el.open();    // Calls MyComponent.open()
el.toggle();  // Calls MyComponent.toggle()

### Important notes

- Methods listed in `exposedMethods` must exist on the component class
- Calls can only be made on elements that are already attached to the DOM
- The methods keep their original `this` context, so they can safely access other component properties and services.
- This feature is intended for public API methods only; avoid exposing internal/private logic.

## Example: A Popup Service

Previously, when you wanted to add a component to an application at runtime, you had to define a _dynamic component_, and then you would have to load it, attach it to an element in the DOM, and wire up all of the dependencies, change detection, and event handling.

Using an Angular custom element makes the process simpler and more transparent, by providing all the infrastructure and framework automatically —all you have to do is define the kind of event handling you want.
\(You do still have to exclude the component from compilation, if you are not going to use it in your application.\)

The following Popup Service example application defines a component that you can either load dynamically or convert to a custom element.

| Files                | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| :------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `popup.component.ts` | Defines a simple pop-up element that displays an input message, with some animation and styling.                                                                                                                             |
| `popup.service.ts`   | Creates an injectable service that provides two different ways to invoke the `PopupComponent`; as a dynamic component, or as a custom element. Notice how much more setup is required for the dynamic-loading method.        |  |
| `app.component.ts`   | Defines the application's root component, which uses the `PopupService` to add the pop-up to the DOM at run time. When the application runs, the root component's constructor converts `PopupComponent` to a custom element. |

For comparison, the demo shows both methods.
One button adds the popup using the dynamic-loading method, and the other uses the custom element.
The result is the same, but the preparation is different.

<docs-code-multifile>
    <docs-code header="popup.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/elements/src/app/popup.component.ts"/>
    <docs-code header="popup.service.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/elements/src/app/popup.service.ts"/>
    <docs-code header="app.component.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/elements/src/app/app.component.ts"/>
</docs-code-multifile>

## Typings for custom elements

Generic DOM APIs, such as `document.createElement()` or `document.querySelector()`, return an element type that is appropriate for the specified arguments.
For example, calling `document.createElement('a')` returns an `HTMLAnchorElement`, which TypeScript knows has an `href` property.
Similarly, `document.createElement('div')` returns an `HTMLDivElement`, which TypeScript knows has no `href` property.

When called with unknown elements, such as a custom element name \(`popup-element` in our example\), the methods return a generic type, such as `HTMLElement`, because TypeScript can't infer the correct type of the returned element.

Custom elements created with Angular extend `NgElement` \(which in turn extends `HTMLElement`\).
Additionally, these custom elements will have a property for each input of the corresponding component.
For example, our `popup-element` has a `message` property of type `string`.

There are a few options if you want to get correct types for your custom elements.
Assume you create a `my-dialog` custom element based on the following component:

<docs-code language="typescript">

@Component(…)
class MyDialog {
  content =  input(string);
}

</docs-code>

The most straightforward way to get accurate typings is to cast the return value of the relevant DOM methods to the correct type.
For that, use the `NgElement` and `WithProperties` types \(both exported from `@angular/elements`\):

<docs-code language="typescript">

const aDialog = document.createElement('my-dialog') as NgElement & WithProperties<{content: string}>;
aDialog.content = 'Hello, world!';
aDialog.content = 123;  // <-- ERROR: TypeScript knows this should be a string.
aDialog.body = 'News';  // <-- ERROR: TypeScript knows there is no `body` property on `aDialog`.

</docs-code>

This is a good way to quickly get TypeScript features, such as type checking and autocomplete support, for your custom element.
But it can get cumbersome if you need it in several places, because you have to cast the return type on every occurrence.

An alternative way, that only requires defining each custom element's type once, is augmenting the `HTMLElementTagNameMap`, which TypeScript uses to infer the type of a returned element based on its tag name \(for DOM methods such as `document.createElement()`, `document.querySelector()`, etc.\):

<docs-code language="typescript">

declare global {
  interface HTMLElementTagNameMap {
    'my-dialog': NgElement & WithProperties<{content: string}>;
    'my-other-element': NgElement & WithProperties<{foo: 'bar'}>;
    …
  }
}

</docs-code>

Now, TypeScript can infer the correct type the same way it does for built-in elements:

<docs-code language="typescript">

document.createElement('div')               //--> HTMLDivElement (built-in element)
document.querySelector('foo')               //--> Element        (unknown element)
document.createElement('my-dialog')         //--> NgElement & WithProperties<{content: string}> (custom element)
document.querySelector('my-other-element')  //--> NgElement & WithProperties<{foo: 'bar'}>      (custom element)

</docs-code>

## Limitations

Care should be taken when destroying and then re-attaching custom elements created with `@angular/elements` due to issues with the [disconnect()](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/38778) callback. Cases where you may run into this issue are:

- Rendering a component in an `ng-if` or `ng-repeat` in `AngularJs`
- Manually detaching and re-attaching an element to the DOM
